README.md, before:

# VesperiaTools
Collection of scripts and tools to extract data from Tales of Vesperia Definitive Edition.

## Features
1. Extract meshes (with some issues).
2. Extract textures.*
3. Unpack DAT packages.*
4. Export meshes as Wavefront OBJ.**

_*Requires HyoutaTools._
_**Refer to Known Issues_

## Requirements
- Python 3.8+
- Windows 7 SP1 or newer (for HyoutaTools)

## Running VesperiaTools
Currently, there is a simple GUI for extracting textures. [Refer to this issue.](https://github.com/hueyyeng/VesperiaTools/issues/6)

![vesperia_tools_screenshot.png](docs/images/vesperia_tools_screenshot.png)

For other features such as extracting the meshes, please checkout v0.1 and read the codes to get an idea on which functions to run.

The use of virtual environment are highly recommended in isolating existing Python environment. Please refer to the steps below:
```bash
virtualenv --python python env
source env/Scripts/activate
pip install -r requirements/base.txt
python main.py
```

Refer to [https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/](https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/) for more details on setting up a virtual environment.

## Dependencies
Uses Admiral Curtiss' [HyoutaTools](https://github.com/AdmiralCurtiss/HyoutaTools) to perform certain data extraction. Knowledge of compiling Visual Studio project are required to compile HyoutaTools.

Tested with commit [40549fa](https://github.com/AdmiralCurtiss/HyoutaTools/commit/40549faf61aa662bf05f74f2f9d18dc5877d58cc)

The GUI have a field to specify the path to the compiled `HyoutaToolsCLI.exe`. Make sure the executables and DLLs are located in the same directory.

## Known Issues
1. The exported Wavefront OBJ works in 3ds Max 2015 and Houdini 16.5. Maya 2014 can't import the exported Wavefront OBJ due to overlapping face indices value (it is a known quirk for Maya OBJ plugin)
2. The UVs for non-character meshes are wonky (read: unusable).
3. There is no material support yet for this release.

## TODO
- Remove dependencies for HyoutaTools (make this scripts purely dependant on Python's libraries so it can be run on macOS and Linux)
- Text extraction and fix typo issues (e.g. missing whitespace, linebreak, etc)
- Creating a patcher to assists patching of data.

## Credits
- __[Admiral Curtiss](https://github.com/AdmiralCurtiss)__
  - For creating HyoutaTools and figuring out the quirky unpacking method for PC Vesperia Definitive Edition [Link To Raised Issue](https://github.com/AdmiralCurtiss/HyoutaTools/issues/7).
  - GitHub repo: [HyoutaTools](https://github.com/AdmiralCurtiss/HyoutaTools)
- __[delguoqing](https://github.com/delguoqing)__
  - For sharing the Python 2 script that he wrote for extracting character meshes and textures for Xbox 360 Vesperia version.
  - GitHub repo: [tov_tools](https://github.com/delguoqing/various/tree/master/tov_tools)
- __Szkaradek123__ from Xentax forum
  - For sharing the Python 2 script for Blender 2.49 for extracting character meshes, skin weights, joints and textures for PC Vesperia Definitive Edition.

Commit message:

VT-10: Remove HyoutaTools dependencies
- Reimplement logic that previously call HyoutaTools command

README.md, after:

# VesperiaTools
Collection of scripts and tools to extract data from Tales of Vesperia Definitive Edition.

## Features
1. Extract meshes (with some issues).
2. Extract textures.
3. Parse SVO, DAT and FPS4 packages.
4. Export meshes as Wavefront OBJ.**

Take note that VesperiaTools will dump the parsed files within the same directory as the input file. Make sure to have enough free disk space.

_**Refer to Known Issues_

## Requirements
- Python 3.8+
- Windows 7 SP1 or newer, Linux or macOS

## Running VesperiaTools
![vesperia_tools_screenshot.png](docs/images/vesperia_tools_screenshot.png)

The use of virtual environment are highly recommended in isolating existing Python environment. Please refer to the steps below:
```bash
virtualenv --python python env
source env/Scripts/activate
pip install -r requirements/base.txt
python main.py
```

Refer to [https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/](https://realpython.com/python-virtual-environments-a-primer/) for more details on setting up a virtual environment.

## Known Issues
1. The exported Wavefront OBJ works in 3ds Max 2015 and Houdini 16.5. Maya 2014 can't import the exported Wavefront OBJ due to overlapping face indices value (it is a known quirk for Maya OBJ plugin)
2. The UVs for non-character meshes are wonky (read: unusable).
3. There is no material support yet for this release.

## TODO
- Text extraction and fix typo issues (e.g. missing whitespace, linebreak, etc)
- Creating a patcher to assists patching of data.

## Credits
- __[Admiral Curtiss](https://github.com/AdmiralCurtiss)__
  - For creating HyoutaTools and figuring out the quirky unpacking method for PC Vesperia Definitive Edition [Link To Raised Issue](https://github.com/AdmiralCurtiss/HyoutaTools/issues/7).
  - GitHub repo: [HyoutaTools](https://github.com/AdmiralCurtiss/HyoutaTools)
- __[delguoqing](https://github.com/delguoqing)__
  - For sharing the Python 2 script that he wrote for extracting character meshes and textures for Xbox 360 Vesperia version.
  - GitHub repo: [tov_tools](https://github.com/delguoqing/various/tree/master/tov_tools)
- __Szkaradek123__ from Xentax forum
  - For sharing the Python 2 script for Blender 2.49 for extracting character meshes, skin weights, joints and textures for PC Vesperia Definitive Edition.
